docs/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/mapping_suite/index.adoc, before:

= What is a Mapping suite?

A *mapping suite* is a set of "mappings" that defines how an XML document representing an e-Procurement Notice will be transformed to an equivalent RDF graph representation. These mappings are materialized in different forms, as it will be explained later, and a mapping suite will have all its relevant components organized in a package, which we refer to as a *mapping suite package*.

== Who are these docs written for?

This documentation is written for a wide audience, with different interests in the TED-SWS project, and different levels of expertise Semantic Web, EU e-Procurement and software infrastructure. More specifically this documentation can be of interest to:

- *Semantic Engineers* interested in understanding and writing mappings from XML to RDF, in particular in the EU eProcurement domain;
- *Software Engineers* interested in integrating mapping suite packages into processing pipelines;
- *End-Users*, such as *Semantic Web Practitioners* or *Experts in eProcurement Domain*, who are interested in understanding how the RDF representation of the e-procurement notices look like, and how this representation conforms to the eProcurement Ontology (ePO).


== Prerequisites

To allow for a proper understanding of this documentation, the reader should have a basic level of familiarity with the following topics:

- RDF
- RML
- ePO
- eProcurement process
- ...


== Glossary

- [[gloss:cm]] *Conceptual Mapping*, often abbreviated as *CM*, is a more abstract level mapping of XPaths identifying XML elements to ePO classes and properties that need to be instantiated in the output RDF graph

- [[gloss:mapping_package]] *Mapping package*, see xref:gloss:ms_package[*Mapping suite package*]

- [[gloss:ms_package]] *Mapping suite package* is a collection of files organized in a tree of folders, containing the conceptual mapping (CM), the technical mapping (TM)

- [[gloss:package]] *Package*, often used as a short name for xref:gloss:ms_package[*Mapping suite package*]

- [[gloss:rml]] *RML* or *RDF Mapping Language* is a

- [[gloss:tm]] *Technical Mapping* , often abbreviated as *TM*, is

-


== Further readings
Depending on the interest of the reader the following pages can be explored (in this logical order):

** xref:mapping_suite/ted-sws-introduction.adoc[]
** xref:mapping_suite/repository-structure.adoc[GitHub Repository structure]
** xref:mapping_suite/mapping-suite-structure.adoc[Mapping suite anatomy]
** xref:mapping_suite/code-list-resources.adoc[Code list mappings]
** xref:mapping_suite/preparing-test-data.adoc[Data samples]
** xref:mapping_suite/versioning.adoc[Versioning]
** xref:mapping_suite/ [References]

Commit message:

Changes to the glossary and more

docs/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/mapping_suite/index.adoc, after:

= What is a Mapping suite?

A *mapping suite* is a set of "mappings" that defines how an XML document representing an e-Procurement Notice will be transformed to an equivalent RDF graph representation. These mappings are materialized in different forms, as it will be explained later, and a mapping suite will have all its relevant components organized in a package, which we refer to as a *mapping suite package*.

== Who are these docs written for?

This documentation is written for a wide audience, with different interests in the TED-SWS project, and different levels of expertise Semantic Web, EU e-Procurement and software infrastructure. More specifically this documentation can be of interest to:

- *Semantic Engineers* interested in understanding and writing mappings from XML to RDF, in particular in the EU eProcurement domain;
- *Software Engineers* interested in integrating mapping suite packages into processing pipelines;
- *End-Users*, such as *Semantic Web Practitioners* or *Experts in eProcurement Domain*, who are interested in understanding how the RDF representation of the e-procurement notices look like, and how this representation conforms to the eProcurement Ontology (ePO).


== Prerequisites

To allow for a proper understanding of the Mapping Suite Documentation, the reader should have a basic level of familiarity with the following topics:

- RDF
- RML
- ePO
- eProcurement process
- ...


== Glossary

- [[gloss:cm]] *Conceptual Mapping*, often abbreviated as *CM*, is an abstract level mapping of XPaths, which identify certain XML elements, to those ePO classes and properties that need to be instantiated in the output RDF graph

- [[gloss:mapping_package]] *Mapping package*, see xref:gloss:ms_package[*Mapping suite package*]

- [[gloss:ms_package]] *Mapping suite package* is a collection of files, organized in folders, containing the conceptual mapping (CM), the technical mappings, the test data sample, the output of

- [[gloss:package]] *Package*, often used as a short name for xref:gloss:ms_package[*Mapping suite package*]

- [[gloss:rml]] *RML*, or the *RDF Mapping Language* is a

- [[gloss:tm]] *Technical Mapping*, often abbreviated as *TM*, is

- [[gloss:ted]] *Tenders Electronic Daily (TED)*, is an online portal that publishes hundreds of thousands of public procurement notices per year.  A cornerstone of European public procurement, TED helps economic operators find business opportunities from around the EU.

- [[gloss:test_data]] *Test data* - a carefully selected, representative sample of real notices published on TED, which cover all the different XPaths that can appear in the entire set of Public Procurement data of a certain type.


== Further readings
Depending on the interest of the reader the following pages can be explored (in this logical order):

** xref:mapping_suite/ted-sws-introduction.adoc[]
** xref:mapping_suite/repository-structure.adoc[GitHub Repository structure]
** xref:mapping_suite/mapping-suite-structure.adoc[Mapping suite anatomy]
** xref:mapping_suite/code-list-resources.adoc[Code list mappings]
** xref:mapping_suite/preparing-test-data.adoc[Data samples]
** xref:mapping_suite/versioning.adoc[Versioning]
** xref:mapping_suite/ [References]
