docs/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/mapping_suite/preparing-test-data.adoc, before:

== Representative sample data selection

This section describes TED notice data samples and methods used to generate them. At first a sampling is performed on the notices from 2021, and then on a wider set.

=== Sample TED notices from 2021

This data sample (`test_data/sampling_2021`) contains carefully selected TED notices based on the following criteria: maximise representativeness, minimise the number of selected documents. The selected notices are guaranteed to cover all possible XPath configurations available in the data. The sampling was performed automatically.

* The current sampling exercise was performed on all records collected in 2021;

* The data space was partitioned twice based on two criteria: the notice form number (e.g. `F03`, `F06`) and the eForms Subtype (e.g. `cn-standard`, `can-utilities`);

* The minimal set of the most representative notices have been selected for each form_number and eforms_subtype .


=== Sampling result statistics
Below we present two tables with statistics indicating the total number for each selection criteria, the percentage relative to the total number of considered notices (i.e. total in 2021), and the number of selected most representative notices.

==== Sampling based on form_number:

|===
|*form_number*|*nr. of notices*|*percentage of total number of notices*|*nr. of the most representative notices*

|F03|249618|37,35|20
|F02|223430|33,43|18
|F14|77564|11,6|11
|F20|30244|4,52|7
|F06|27746|4,15|21
|F05|22452|3,36|29
|F01|11483|1,72|23
|F15|7788|1,17|43
|F21|5844|0,87|20
|F18|2035|0,3|25
|F08|2034|0,3|10
|F24|1764|0,26|19
|F17|1680|0,25|27
|F12|1546|0,23|16
|F25|1115|0,17|19
|F13|957|0,14|13
|F04|932|0,14|20
|F22|93|0,01|13
|F16|56|0,01|11
|F23|0|0|0
|F07|0|0|0
|F19|0|0|0
|*Total*|*668381*|*100%*|*365*
|===

==== Sampling based on eforms_subtype:


|===
|*eforms_subtype*|*nr. of notices*|*percentage of total number of notices*|*nr. of most representative notices*

|29|249618|37,35|19
|16|223430|33,43|19
|41|77564|11,6|11
|30|27746|4,15|21
|17|22452|3,36|27
|38|19151|2,87|8
|39|10797|1,62|7
|4|7177|1,07|10
|25|7006|1,05|17
|20|5771|0,86|18
|7|3872|0,58|21
|31|2035|0,3|24
|1|1839|0,28|8
|19|1764|0,26|19
|18|1680|0,25|26
|23|1502|0,22|15
|32|1115|0,17|19
|36|930|0,14|13
|26|499|0,07|15
|5|460|0,07|11
|10|434|0,06|17
|8|411|0,06|14
|40|296|0,04|6
|27|235|0,04|17
|2|157|0,02|4
|21|93|0,01|13
|12|73|0,01|5
|11|61|0,01|12
|6|56|0,01|11
|28|48|0,01|8
|24|44|0,01|10
|3|38|0,01|5
|37|27|0|4
|13|0|0|0
|15|0|0|0
|22|0|0|0
|33|0|0|0
|34|0|0|0
|35|0|0|0
|*Total*|*668381*|*100%*|*454*
|===

=== Sampling of TED notices based on XSD versions

We also made a separate sampling on *all the TED notices published between 2014 and 2022*. We split up these samples based on the various XSD versions according to which they were created. These samples can be found in the following folder structure
```
test_data
   sampling_2014_2022
      R2.0.9.S01.E01            (702 notices)
      R2.0.9.S02.E01            (808 notices)
      R2.0.9.S03.E01            (809 notices)
      R2.0.9.S04.E01            (778 notices)
      R2.0.9.S05.E01            (662 notices)
```

Each of this folder contains separate samples for each of the Standard forms and eForms subtypes.

Commit message:

added page attributes and feedback partial

docs/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/mapping_suite/preparing-test-data.adoc, after:

:doctitle: Preparing Test Data
:doccode: sws-main-prod-014
:author: NPJ
:authoremail: nicole-anne.paterson-jones@ext.ec.europa.eu
:docdate: October 2023


== Representative sample data selection

This section describes TED notice data samples and methods used to generate them. At first a sampling is performed on the notices from 2021, and then on a wider set.

=== Sample TED notices from 2021

This data sample (`test_data/sampling_2021`) contains carefully selected TED notices based on the following criteria: maximise representativeness, minimise the number of selected documents. The selected notices are guaranteed to cover all possible XPath configurations available in the data. The sampling was performed automatically.

* The current sampling exercise was performed on all records collected in 2021;

* The data space was partitioned twice based on two criteria: the notice form number (e.g. `F03`, `F06`) and the eForms Subtype (e.g. `cn-standard`, `can-utilities`);

* The minimal set of the most representative notices have been selected for each form_number and eforms_subtype .


=== Sampling result statistics
Below we present two tables with statistics indicating the total number for each selection criteria, the percentage relative to the total number of considered notices (i.e. total in 2021), and the number of selected most representative notices.

==== Sampling based on form_number:

|===
|*form_number*|*nr. of notices*|*percentage of total number of notices*|*nr. of the most representative notices*

|F03|249618|37,35|20
|F02|223430|33,43|18
|F14|77564|11,6|11
|F20|30244|4,52|7
|F06|27746|4,15|21
|F05|22452|3,36|29
|F01|11483|1,72|23
|F15|7788|1,17|43
|F21|5844|0,87|20
|F18|2035|0,3|25
|F08|2034|0,3|10
|F24|1764|0,26|19
|F17|1680|0,25|27
|F12|1546|0,23|16
|F25|1115|0,17|19
|F13|957|0,14|13
|F04|932|0,14|20
|F22|93|0,01|13
|F16|56|0,01|11
|F23|0|0|0
|F07|0|0|0
|F19|0|0|0
|*Total*|*668381*|*100%*|*365*
|===

==== Sampling based on eforms_subtype:


|===
|*eforms_subtype*|*nr. of notices*|*percentage of total number of notices*|*nr. of most representative notices*

|29|249618|37,35|19
|16|223430|33,43|19
|41|77564|11,6|11
|30|27746|4,15|21
|17|22452|3,36|27
|38|19151|2,87|8
|39|10797|1,62|7
|4|7177|1,07|10
|25|7006|1,05|17
|20|5771|0,86|18
|7|3872|0,58|21
|31|2035|0,3|24
|1|1839|0,28|8
|19|1764|0,26|19
|18|1680|0,25|26
|23|1502|0,22|15
|32|1115|0,17|19
|36|930|0,14|13
|26|499|0,07|15
|5|460|0,07|11
|10|434|0,06|17
|8|411|0,06|14
|40|296|0,04|6
|27|235|0,04|17
|2|157|0,02|4
|21|93|0,01|13
|12|73|0,01|5
|11|61|0,01|12
|6|56|0,01|11
|28|48|0,01|8
|24|44|0,01|10
|3|38|0,01|5
|37|27|0|4
|13|0|0|0
|15|0|0|0
|22|0|0|0
|33|0|0|0
|34|0|0|0
|35|0|0|0
|*Total*|*668381*|*100%*|*454*
|===

=== Sampling of TED notices based on XSD versions

We also made a separate sampling on *all the TED notices published between 2014 and 2022*. We split up these samples based on the various XSD versions according to which they were created. These samples can be found in the following folder structure
----
test_data
   sampling_2014_2022
      R2.0.9.S01.E01            (702 notices)
      R2.0.9.S02.E01            (808 notices)
      R2.0.9.S03.E01            (809 notices)
      R2.0.9.S04.E01            (778 notices)
      R2.0.9.S05.E01            (662 notices)
----

Each of this folder contains separate samples for each of the Standard forms and eForms subtypes.

include::partial$feedback.adoc[]
