docs/antora/modules/connecting/pages/sparql.adoc, before:

= Submitting a query in the Cellar SPARQL EndPoint

== Cellar SPARQL EndPoint

image::sparql3.png[]


== Link to the SPARQL EndPoint

[sidebar]
****
The SPARQL EndPoint: https://publications.europa.eu/webapi/rdf/sparql
****


== Results Formats

* *HTML*: returns the results in HTML format in the browser window

* *HTML (basic browsing links)*: returns the results in HTML format in the browser window

* *Spreadsheet*: downloads a results HTML file

* *XML*: downloads a results XML file

* *JSON*: returns a results JSON file in the browser window

* *Javascript*: returns a results JSON table in the browser window

* *Turtle*: returns a results file in turtle syntax in the browser window

* *RDF/XML*: downloads a results file in RDF format 

* *N-triples*: returns a results file in n-triple format in the browser window

* *CSV*: downloads a results comma separated values file

* *TSV*: downloads a results tab separated values file

The query is pasted into the "Query Text" field. The query demonstrated returns a list of companies that have won a tender/ contract where the notice that announced this was published on the requested date.

== The Results

This returns the results (here in HTML format):

image::results1.png[]

//=== A short video of this process

//#add video of query submission#

include::ROOT:partial$feedback.adoc[]

Commit message:

added youtube links to excel amd sparql videos

docs/antora/modules/connecting/pages/sparql.adoc, after:

= Submitting a query in the Cellar SPARQL EndPoint

== Cellar SPARQL EndPoint

image::sparql3.png[]


== Link to the SPARQL EndPoint

[sidebar]
****
The SPARQL EndPoint: https://publications.europa.eu/webapi/rdf/sparql
****


== Results Formats

* *HTML*: returns the results in HTML format in the browser window

* *HTML (basic browsing links)*: returns the results in HTML format in the browser window

* *Spreadsheet*: downloads a results HTML file

* *XML*: downloads a results XML file

* *JSON*: returns a results JSON file in the browser window

* *Javascript*: returns a results JSON table in the browser window

* *Turtle*: returns a results file in turtle syntax in the browser window

* *RDF/XML*: downloads a results file in RDF format 

* *N-triples*: returns a results file in n-triple format in the browser window

* *CSV*: downloads a results comma separated values file

* *TSV*: downloads a results tab separated values file

The query is pasted into the "Query Text" field. The query demonstrated returns a list of companies that have won a tender/ contract where the notice that announced this was published on the requested date.

== The Results

This returns the results (here in HTML format):

image::results1.png[]

=== A short video of this query method

NOTE: copying the results URL to the clipboard is only necessary if you are using it for the xref:excel.adoc[Excel query method].

video::kSINuHK27NE[youtube, width=720, height=540]



include::ROOT:partial$feedback.adoc[]
